---
layout: post_index
title:  "Numerical Simulations: The Impact of Viaduct and Street Canyon Configurations on Particle Distribution"
date:   2023-03-02 10:03:10 -0500
categories: jekyll update
permalink: 'urban-viaduct'
author: Kaifa Lu
---

Second-year Ph.D. student Kaifa Lu, under the supervision of Dr. Zhong-Ren Peng, has recently presented his research "Characterization and prediction of mobility resilience in transportation network: A spatiotemporal graph diffusion convolutional recurrent neural network approach" at Transportation Research Board 102nd Annual Meeting, Washington D.C., 2023. Also, he published another research [Impacts of viaduct and geometry configurations on the distribution of traffic-related particulate matter in urban street canyon](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2022.159902) at Science of The Total Environment.

Resilience of transportation network is an increasingly important concept to understand the response of urban mobility systems against unexpected perturbations. However, there is a lack of data-driven approaches to characterizing and predicting network resilience, particularly for mobility resilience of transportation network, which describes how human mobility patterns change due to disruptions of transportation network. This study helps fill the research gap. Specifically, he first proposed an indicator-based approach (an integration of traffic volume and speed) to characterizing and quantifying mobility resilience of transportation network against disruptions. Then he developed a spatiotemporal graph diffusion convolutional recurrent neural network (GDCRNN) model that could simultaneously extract spatial and temporal features from historical data of human mobility over transportation network to forecast mobility performance and resilience of transportation network against disruptions. Finally, he used mobility data of highway network against Hurricane Dorian in Miami-Dade County, Florida as a case study to demonstrate the characterization and prediction of mobility resilience. The results suggested that the GDCRNN model based on a combination of three directed graphs (geographical adjacency, land use similarity, and demographical similarity) performed the best in predicting the mobility resilience of highway network, with mean absolute error less than 0.06, root mean square error less than 0.09, and correlation coefficient higher than 0.96. To conclude, the proposed GDCRNN deep learning model could achieve the accurate forecasts of mobility performance and resilience of nodes in highway network such that the results could assist decision-makers in taking efficient precautions to alleviate adverse impacts of disruptions on mobility over highway network so as to maintain a demonstrated level of service.
